Now this morning, I'm going to focus on the first words of our text.
It says, the word of God is alive and exerts power.
The word of God is alive.
Now, there's no question that this text does apply to God's written word, the Bible.
But Jehovah had a word, God's word existed, even before the art of writing was invented.
Now, how long before we don't know?
At least as long as Jesus has been alive.
Before Jesus was alive, of course, Jehovah had no one to speak to, but now with the creation
of Jesus, he and his son could communicate.
Now, what is God's word?
We've said that it's the expression of his purpose.
And that means that when Jehovah says he's going to do something, it's as good as done.
And nothing and no one can stand in the way.
But sometimes, with the best of intentions, we could actually get in the way of a decision
or a project that Jehovah approves of.
Now, we have an example of this in an event that happened in the lives of Esau and Jacob.
Now, who was getting in the way in that story?
The faithful man, Isaac.
After 20 years of marriage, Isaac and Rebecca finally had two sons, Esau and Jacob.
But we know that Esau was the first born.
And as the watchtower pointed out this week, in patriarchal times at the death of the father,
why the first born took the lead in the family.
He was the one who conducted family worship, and he served as a sort of priest.
And that's why the Bible speaks of priests being present at Mount Sinai
before the Levitical priesthood was set up.
But Jehovah had told Rebecca that Jacob was going to have the first born's position.
We don't know if he told Isaac, but he did tell Rebecca
that Jacob was going to have the first born's position.
So the word had gone out.
The expression of God's purpose had gone out.
Jacob would take precedence over Esau.
Could anyone challenge that?
Now, what you consider what God's purpose was, Jacob was the right choice, wasn't it?
It wasn't it, because what was God's purpose?
It was to set up a nation of worshipers.
Those who were going to worship Jehovah, now between Esau and Jacob,
who was most likely to conduct family worship with his children, his offspring,
certainly Jacob.
Now, for the first 15 years of their lives, Esau and Jacob could probably have heard Abraham
talk about the promise that God had given him, that all of the families of the earth
were going to be blessed by means of his offspring.
And no doubt Jacob realized what a beautiful privilege it would be to share in the fulfillment
of that purpose.
While Rebecca loved the one Jehovah loved most, Jacob, Isaac loved Esau.
Even after Esau had married out of the truth twice.
Well some in full-time service have a brother or sister who isn't doing very well in the
truth.
He or she is the favorite.
Go figure.
Even parents in the truth don't always love the one Jehovah loves most.
Now one day, Isaac had a conversation with Esau, and it's interesting.
Look at Genesis chapter 27, we're going to read verses 1 to 4, and there are a couple
of lessons here that we're going to consider.
Genesis chapter 27, we're going to read verses 1 to 4.
It says, Now when Isaac was old and his eyes were too weak to see, he called Esau, his
older son to him and said, My son, he replied, Here I am.
And he went on to say, I have now grown old.
I do not know the day of my death.
So at this time it take please your weapons, your quiver and your bow, and go out to the
field and hunt some wild game for me.
Then make the kind of tasty dish that I'm fond of, and bring it to me.
Then I will eat it so that I may bless you before I die.
Before I die.
So Isaac was on his deathbed, right?
Wrong.
If you do the math, you see that Isaac lived for 43 years after he had that last meal.
But we can understand why he felt that he was on his last legs because he was blind.
He couldn't do what he used to do.
And so he probably thought that his life was over, and that could happen to any one of
us.
You know if we're in constant pain or we're crippled, well we might think we're finished.
So here's the lesson, No matter what your limitations are, don't give
up on life.
Find out what you can do, and then do what you can.
The dead can't praise Jehovah, but you can as long as you're alive.
And even if you get to the point where all you can do is keep your integrity and praise
Jehovah, do that.
Don't give up.
But now let's get back to the point we started with, and that is with the best of intentions
we could get in the way of Jehovah's purpose.
Now Isaac was determined to bless Esau and make Jacob his servant.
Isaac was getting in the way.
He was getting in the way of Jehovah's purpose.
It seems that later Isaac realized his mistake because when Jacob was leaving to find a wife,
Jacob was told, God Almighty will give you the blessing of Abraham.
Isn't that beautiful?
And Almighty will give you the blessing of Abraham.
Tells you what kind of a man Isaac was.
He was a spiritual man.
Yes, he loved Esau more than Jacob, and yes, he wanted Esau to have the blessing.
But when Jehovah's will became clear, Isaac submitted the Apostle Paul wrote, by faith,
Isaac blessed Esau and Jacob.
And now the application, what would it be possible for us to get in the way when Jehovah
decides to do something, or when he approves a project that maybe we don't agree with?
It could happen.
The organization suggests a new way to carry out the preaching work.
We tell our service group, that'll never work here.
Maybe it'll work somewhere else, but not here, or we're different.
What about our building projects?
Why do we need Ramapul?
Armageddon's coming.
In the late 40s, when the decision was made to expand world headquarters at 124 Columbia
Heights, a few of the brothers took a dim view.
Why spend the time and the money so close to the end?
Then in 1953, at the world, at the business meeting of the Watchtower Society, brother
nor read a letter from a sister.
Now, just for context, this is 1953.
And in those days, as I will recall, some thought that Armageddon was going to come 40 years
from 1914.
We were doing a lot of counting back then.
So this sister writes to brother Norrin and says, why are you spending all this money on
building projects when Armageddon could come in 1954?
Well, if we'd listened to her and others like her, where would we be today?
Still back at 124 Columbia Heights.
Speaking about our building programs, brother Norr once made a very profound statement.
It's simple, but it's profound.
He said, we're going to keep building.
Let Jehovah stop it if he doesn't agree with it.
I think he could do that, couldn't he?
Now sometimes a body of elders has a lively discussion about some project or initiative.
Maybe it's the need for a new kingdom hall.
And we may have our concerns.
We may have reservations.
We express those.
But if a number of spirit directed men are enthusiastically in favor of a project, it's
very possible that Jehovah agrees with it, too.
So we wouldn't want to get in the way.
And we wouldn't want to be a naysayer.
Sometimes what happens when we're in a building project, we have a trouble with permitting.
We can't get the permits we need right away.
Or maybe a building inspector comes and he causes a lot of trouble.
And we wouldn't want to be the type of person who says, well, this project mustn't have
Jehovah's blessing because if it had Jehovah's blessing, everything would go smoothly.
Tell that to Nehemiah and the Jews in his day.
They had no end of trouble.
And yet what they were doing had Jehovah's approval.
The Word of God is alive and exerts power.
When Jehovah has a purpose, we see what we can do to advance that purpose.
And if there's nothing we can do, we pray for it.
And then we get out of the way.